---
layout: page
title:  "ePAD"
subheadline:  "electronic Physician Annotation Device"
teaser: "The electronic Physician Annotation Device (ePAD) is a Web-based semantic annotation system for making the content in radiological images machine-accessible on the Semantic Web."
categories:
    - project
tags:
    - project   
header: no
image:
   title: "ePAD.jpg"
   thumb: "epad-logo.png"
breadcrumb: true
---

This project is being done in collaboration with [Dr. Daniel Rubin's](http://bmir.stanford.edu/people/view.php/daniel_l_rubin) lab, the [Laboratory of Image Informatics](http://www.stanford.edu/~rubin/), Dept. of Radiology, Stanford University School of Medicine.

Our group here at USP have done a substantial amount of the design of the Web-based method of creating ontology-based annotations on images, and deploying an entire image viewing and annotation system in a thin-client Web browser application. To our knowledge, this is the first such approach to make the semantic contents of images accessible to agents on the Web, and it could have enormous impact, not only within the medical community, but potentially even in consumer imaging applications on the Web.

There is great potential in applying semantic methods to medical images, which will enable machine-processing of image content in large scale, similar to the paradigm of data-intensive bioinformatics data mining. In addition, this computationally-accessible image data can be linked to genetic data (for instance, from OMIM - Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man) to enable discovery of imaging features that predict the genetic features.
It's so easy to do. Just define in front matter your image.

## Sub Projects

{% for post in site.categories.subproject %}
  {% if post.tags[0] == 'epad' %}
    {% include _pagination_small.html %}
  {% endif %}
{% endfor %}

### All Projects
{: .t60 }

{% include list-posts tag='project' %}
