---
layout: page
title:  "Using Spatiotemporal Information to Integrate Heterogeneous Biodiversity Semantic Data"
subheadline:  "Biodiversity LOD"
teaser: "Biodiversity is essential to life on Earth and motivates many efforts to collect data about species. These data are collected in different places and published in different formats. Researchers use it to extract new knowledge about living things, but it is difficult to retrieve, combine and integrate data sources from different places. This work will investigate how to integrate biodiversity information from heterogeneous sources using Semantic Web technologies. Its main objective is to propose an architecture to link biodiversity data using mainly their spatiotemporal dimension, effectively search these linked data sets and test them using real use cases, defined with the help of biodiversity experts. It is also an important objective to propose a suitable provenance model that captures not only data origin but also temporal information. This architecture will be tested on a set of representative data from important Brazilian institutions that are involved in studies of biodiversity."
categories:
    - subproject
tags:
    - project
image:
   thumb: "geobio.jpg"
header:
    image_fullwidth: "geobio.jpg"
breadcrumb: true
---

Biological diversity is essential to life sustainability on Earth [1]. The large amount of data generated by researchers in biodiversity has led to discussions about how to find the best ways to organize this data and provide tools and environments that stimulate and facilitate the search for information. Currently, when using search tools for biodiversity data, experts specify their queries using one or more terms of interest. However, these terms may not match those that are part of the documents and, therefore, some relevant documents are not recovered [2].

In Brazil, there is a network of Amazonian and extra-Amazonian institutions that are involved in studies of biodiversity. This network is integrated by important institutions, such as  the [National Research Institute for the Amazon] (INPA)(http://portal.inpa.gov.br/),  the [National Institute for Space Research] (INPE)(http://www.inpe.br/ingles/), the [Global Biodiversity Information Facility] (GBIF)(http://www.gbif.org/), the [Emilio Gueldi Museum in Pará] (MPEG)(http://www.museu-goeldi.br/portal/), and [Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation] (EMBRAPA)(https://www.embrapa.br/en). These organizations collect and contribute large amounts of data about biodiversity. One of the most frequent problems, reported by biodiversity researches, is how to retrieve and integrate information simultaneously from the big number of data sources found on the various biodiversity databases. Typically, these users utilize the biodiversity data to visualize integrated information about the collected specimens [1]. 

The problem is that a specialist may specify one or more terms (strings) for a search and, due to the large amount of available data, get responses with too many results (not all relevant). He then has a lot of work sifting through the results for the desired information, because the results provided are very broad and may not even contain the targeted data. This activity is not particularly well supported by biodiversity software tools based on keyword searching (the kind usually found in the Web) [2]. 

Even if a search is successful, it is the biodiversity specialist who must browse the selected documents to extract the information he/she is looking for. There is not much support for retrieving the actual information from the documents, a very time-consuming activity, and put it in a suitable format. Of course, there are tools that can retrieve texts, split them into parts, check the spelling, and count their words. But, when it comes to interpret sentences and extract useful information for biodiversity specialists, the capabilities of current software are still very limited. It is simply very difficult to distinguish the meaning of the following query:

• “Return all occurrences of records of insects that belong to the ant family (Formicidae) and have been found in an aquatic habitat in the Brazilian Amazon forest”

For instance, an SQL query, in a traditional database, would only succeed if records have the exact information (strings) asked in the query. In this case, a record of a Paraponera clavata specimen (bullet-ant) that was found in a swamp would not be returned. The strings "Paraponera clavata" and "swamp" are not in the query. 

Biodiversity specialists also need more complex queries, e.g., requiring spatiotemporal query processing, such as deriving co-occurrence of species in a given spacetime frame. Such processing is seldom supported. Other queries involve biodiversity relations among species, e.g., farms within a protected area. Such relationships are not stored, and must be deduced by the scientist after performing a sequence of queries and simulations.

The main question is:

• How can we integrate biodiversity information from heterogeneous sources using their spatial location and temporal data?

To answer this question, We also need to find an answer to the following questions:

• How can we improve the interoperability of the biodiversity data? 

• How can we improve the location accuracy of biodiversity data?

• How to improve the trust in biodiversity data? 
## Sub Projects

{% for post in site.categories.biodiv %}
  {% include _pagination_small.html %}
{% endfor %}

### All Projects

{% include list-posts tag='project' %}
